Jan 01 2020

Open Source Stuff 1:

I want to contribute to Kong and get the [Kong Contributor Tee Shirt](https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributor-t-shirt) :D and achieve this aim - https://twitter.com/karuppiah7890/status/1210651133032579072 and reply to that tweet with a pic wearing the tee shirt 😉

Now, to start with, I'm planning to run the latest version of Kong
- v2.0.0rc1 https://discuss.konghq.com/t/kong-2-0-0rc1-released/5201 .
I usually choose to run locally or in docker image. A lot of times I
have done it locally, today I just chose docker image. I got the image
with ubuntu os

```
docker pull kong:2.0.0rc1-ubuntu
```

I am reading the docs in docker hub, on how to use the kong image.

https://hub.docker.com/_/kong/

I chose to run kong with postgresql as backend. So I ran the below
command

```
docker run -d --name kong-database \
                -p 5432:5432 \
                -e "POSTGRES_USER=kong" \
                -e "POSTGRES_DB=kong" \
                postgres:9.6
```

it pulled the postgres image and then ran it in the background.

next I ran the migrations

```
docker run --rm \
    --link kong-database:kong-database \
    -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
    -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-database" \
    -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-database" \
    kong:2.0.0rc1-ubuntu kong migrations bootstrap
```

it ran all the migrations

Next I'm going to run kong itself

```
docker run -d --name kong \
    --link kong-database:kong-database \
    -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
    -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-database" \
    -e "KONG_CASSANDRA_CONTACT_POINTS=kong-database" \
    -e "KONG_PROXY_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
    -e "KONG_ADMIN_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout" \
    -e "KONG_PROXY_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
    -e "KONG_ADMIN_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr" \
    -e "KONG_ADMIN_LISTEN=0.0.0.0:8001, 0.0.0.0:8444 ssl" \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    -p 8443:8443 \
    -p 8001:8001 \
    -p 8444:8444 \
    kong:2.0.0rc1-ubuntu
```

With that, everything works. I actually ran `kong` v1 by mistake
initially. And then when I stopped the service, and used v2, it gave
migrations error, asking to run migrations. I realized I ran migrations
too with `kong` v1, so got rid of everything - db, service and started
from scratch. This time I ran migrations with v2, and ran the v2
version service and everything worked 😁

Now 8000 and 8443 are the proxy ports for HTTP and HTTPS, and 8001 and
8444 are the admin ports for HTTP and HTTPS.

I can see proxies are available. Will check on the admin soon, when I
do plugin stuff.

I'm going to now try out golang plugin support next. Since I know only
golang, I'm going to see if I can find any opportunities to contribute
to the golang space in Kong. They also have a few repos (some are forks)
in their org in golang - https://github.com/Kong?language=go . And
contributing to Kuma (golang code) can also get me a tee shirt 😉
Anyways, I might check that later. For now, I'm first going to try out
the golang plugin support to understand the feature and how to use.
Then may be check on what I can do to contribute and get my cool tee
shirt 😁

I'm checking these repos

https://github.com/Kong/go-plugins
https://github.com/kong/go-pluginserver

I tried to run `make` to build, but it failed

Package management is not properly defined, so I just ran

```
$ go mod init github.com/Kong/go-plugins
$ go mod tidy -v
$ make
```

and things worked. I also noticed the `-buildmode=plugin` flag of
`go build`. This is the first time I'm seeing it. Gotta read on it

So, the output was `.so` files

Now, gotta check how to use these two plugins in my Kong and the
feature they provide

So, `go-hello` plugin reads the `host` request header and sets the
`x-hello-from-go` response header. 
https://github.com/Kong/go-plugins/blob/master/go-hello.go

And `go-log.go` is a reimplementation of Kong's file-log plugin in Go

I'm not sure how to run the plugin. And the docs site 
https://docs.konghq.com does not have v2 docs currently, so I'm going
to clone the repo https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com and checkout
to the branch `release/2.0.0` and run it locally to see how to try out
the golang plugins using the `.so` files

Apparently I can run the doc locally using Docker! 😁 Looks easy!

```
$ git clone git@github.com:Kong/docs.konghq.com.git
$ cd docs.konghq.com
$ git checkout release/2.0.0
$ # run and develop locally with Docker!
$ make develop
```

So, it used `docker-compose up` and I was waiting for a lot of time,
but it never worked. Making it work directly in my local without Docker
also looks like a herculian task, with ruby versions and rvm and stuff.
It's taking a lot of time. rvm is doing things slowly

Also, I should have checked what's the source code of the doc to see
the doc content. Looks like there's no docs for v2 😢 Just one commit
extra compared to master, and that's not regarding golang plugins.

So, after spending hours trying to understand doc, now I'm finally
checking the upgrade doc mentioned here 
https://discuss.konghq.com/t/kong-2-0-0rc1-released/5201 , which is
not entirely correct, but I found the correct upgrade doc - 
https://github.com/Kong/kong/blob/2.0.0rc1/UPGRADE.md#upgrade-to-200rc1

Now this one says that the go-pluginserver needs to run along with Kong

Next I checked the kong docker container. I could see the
`go-pluginserver` binary, and I was able to run it. I ran it with
`-socket sock` arg after seeing 

https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver/blob/master/test.sh

Now, I wanted to understand how it will work. I don't know how it
all connects the dots. Like, now that I think of it, the kong is
running. My `go-hello` plugin file `go-hello.so` is only in my local
not in my docker container. I need to surely move that - to some place
and then the go-pluginserver has to run. 

I just did some digging, found the config file at 
`/etc/kong/kong.conf.default` and and noticed a interesting part of the
config using `cat kong.conf.default | grep plugin`, and then opened it
with vim

```
$ apt update
$ apt install vim
$ vi /etc/kong/kong.conf.default
```

the interesting part:

```
#go_plugins_dir = off            # Directory for installing Kong plugins
                                 # written in Go.
                                 #
                                 # This value can be set to `off`, thus disabling
                                 # the plugin server and Go plugin loading.
```

So, I'm going to check what to set this to, like what directory, and I
think the go-pluginserver will be run automatically by kong, so, I'm
not going to run it

Now, let's change the config and reload it

For now, I'm creating a directory in the home dir, and setting the dir
to that

```
$ cd ~
$ mkdir golang-plugins
$ vi /etc/kong/kong.conf.default
```

```
...
...
go_plugins_dir = /root/golang-plugins
...
...
```

Now, before reloading, I'm going to put the `go-hello.so` file in the
dir and then reload

```
$ # kong is the container name
$ docker cp go-hello.so kong:/root/golang-plugins
```

Now, I'm going to reload kong with kong reload command inside the
container

```
$ kong reload
```

Okay, somehow reload doesn't work. But restart works. I also messed up
the configs. I just read the docs here 
https://docs.konghq.com/1.4.x/configuration/#configuration-loading
apparently the config should be at `/etc/kong/kong.conf` or 
`/etc/kong.conf` or we need to use `-c` flag when running kong

Anyways, I did that and messed up as Kong gave some error while
starting. It said some go plugin issue - something regarding not being
able to connect to the server? saying something about sockets, connect
failure and no such file or directory

So, now, I started kong container alone from scratch. I didn't put any
files in the golang-plugins directory, and I also realized that the
`.so` files I created, were created in macos 🤦‍♂ so now I'm running a
linux docker container, as `GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build` didn't
work out due to some gcc issue and I really didn't want to fix that!
🙈 So did this

```
$ docker run --rm -it -v $(pwd):/go-plugins golang bash
$ cd /go-plugins/
$ go version
$ make
$ apt update
$ apt install file
$ file go-hello.so
```

Now, copy it from host to kong container

```
$ docker cp go-hello.so kong:/root/golang-plugins
```

Okay, I did that and did a restart after doing all the config changes
but of course, it failed again, as that was not the issue for the error
that I saw, but it was of course a thing that I needed to do, or else
it wouldn't run - as I previously built it for a different architecture

Now, these are the logs

multiple failures like this
```
[kong] init.lua:421 failure connecting to go plugin server socket: connect failure: No such file or directory
nginx: [error] [kong] init.lua:421 failure connecting to go plugin server socket: connect failure: No such file or directory
```

and multiple graceful shutdown messages in between. I'm guessing it
tried to restart itself and recover, but didn't happen and at the end,
this was the log

```
init.lua:421 failure connecting to go plugin server socket: connect failure: No such file or directory
nginx: [error] [kong] init.lua:421 failure connecting to go plugin server socket: connect failure: No such file or directory
2020/01/01 15:09:45 [error] 1#0: init_by_lua error: /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:187: connect failure: No such file or directory
stack traceback:
        [C]: in function 'assert'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:187: in function 'rpc_call'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:231: in function 'set_plugin_dir'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:453: in function 'get_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:492: in function 'load_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:150: in function 'load_plugin_handler'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:223: in function 'load_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:270: in function 'load_plugin_schemas'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/init.lua:430: in function 'init'
        init_by_lua:3: in main chunk
nginx: [error] init_by_lua error: /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:187: connect failure: No such file or directory
stack traceback:
        [C]: in function 'assert'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:187: in function 'rpc_call'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:231: in function 'set_plugin_dir'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:453: in function 'get_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins/go.lua:492: in function 'load_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:150: in function 'load_plugin_handler'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:223: in function 'load_plugin'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/db/dao/plugins.lua:270: in function 'load_plugin_schemas'
        /usr/local/share/lua/5.1/kong/init.lua:430: in function 'init'
        init_by_lua:3: in main chunk

```

I have kong repo in local. I checked out the functions. Looks like it
was looking for a directory based on the name of the plugin I mentioned
in the config file

```
plugins = bundled,go-hello
```

I need to check the code a bit again and see if I need to create a
directory

Also, Looks like we have two errors. I thought it was just one. 
The other error is about the go-pluginserver - kong is not able
to connect to it. I think we need to run it separately. I don't
think kong is going to run it. Looks like it's just connecting
to it. But I'm not sure how - what's the networking between the two.
I can see the socket errors and I remember go-pluginserver's socket
flag, but how will kong know which "socket" to pass? 

Okay. I checked a bit more, in the pluginserver repo, here

https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver/blob/master/test.sh
and 
here https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver in readme

I think they set the plugin directory as the current working
directory only

https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver/blob/master/test.sh#L67

nothing new named as `go-hello` or something, which I thought was
needed. Also, checking the logs again, the error occurs in an rpc
call and it clearly says "connect failure" and the rpc call is for
set_plugin_dir and I think what's happening here is a call to the
go-pluginserver to set directory, `plugin.SetPluginDir` similar to
this

https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver/blob/master/test.sh#L67

and it failed as plugin server was not up. I should probably sleep
more :P should have guessed this before itself, spent quite some time
on this one. 

Now I gotta check how to make the server up and make sure kong is able
to talk to it!

I really should have learnt how the whole thing works - unfortunately
no docs (or I'm really bad at finding one! damn! 🙈), but I still want
to do this. To try out golang plugin support!

Okay, so I finally found where the "socket file" should be present!
I don't know what that file is, but I know it needs to in this place

```
    __socket_path = __socket_path or kong.configuration.prefix .. "/go_pluginserver.sock"
```

the place where kong config is there? I will have to check how that 
kong.configuration.prefix variable is set and then place the socket
file there, then start the go-pluginserver and then kong. I might have
to do it a bit differently I think - since till now, when I ran docker
container, kong was the first thing that ran. I can't do that now. I
need to run go-pluginserver first, and then have a particular config
to enable golang plugins and the custom plugins and then start kong
with that config

I think I'll continue later. Gonna sleep...