Jan 4th 2020

Possibilities that I created through yesterday's Kong plugin learnings
are:
1. I could create issues in Kong repos - `go-plugins`, `go-pluginserver`.
I'm already doing this - https://github.com/Kong/go-plugins/issues/2 ,
https://github.com/Kong/go-pluginserver/issues/7 

I can create more issues, for example regarding the plugin development
kit version

2. A new repo to create a linter for a lock file for any language that
has issues similar to Js according to this article - 

https://snyk.io/blog/why-npm-lockfiles-can-be-a-security-blindspot-for-injecting-malicious-modules/

But before creating any repo, we will first need to check if there are
existing tools that solve the problem!

3. I know how to run golang plugins. Now, I can learn more on how
a golang plugin is created and write blog post on how to write one

Possibilities that I created from my learnings on creating a doc for
comparison of solutions -
1. I can write more such docs, where I get into the intricate details
of each solution and understand the effort that goes into implementing
that solution. These docs can be for company projects, or open source
too!

# Open Source Stuff 1:

Recently I have been seeing myself struggle quite a bit, because of the
different solutions / solution paths that I take. But I think it's good
to see what works and what doesn't work. I must confess that sometimes
I'm not entirely sure what's going on, or understand anything about a
stuff, but with experience from trying out things and failing and
succeeding, I have been able to make things work, and also understand
the reasoning behind them sometimes. Sometimes it feels like it's too
much work, trying out so many things, debugging so much, looking at the
code of tools, and struggling. But when documentation is not there,
it's okay and better to reside to code or wait for documentation.
But if documentation is there, may be it's better to be NOT lazy like
me and instead read it before doing some stuff :P It'll keep yourself
productive! 

Now, today I'm going to write a Kong plugin, using golang. I need to
think about what to create. May be something very simple and easy, or
even reuse whatever code is there, like the `go-hello` plugin and walk
through what's going on, or a mix of everything to finally create a
plugin at the end which is something new. We can may be check the
existing plugins in Kong hub? ;) that way I get to recreate something
in golang and it will probably become famous :P unlike any of my other
projects 🙈 Let's see if I get those github stars :P it's really cool
for me sometimes. People checking out my work :D So I guess I'll surely
create something that's a replica of what's already present in the Kong
Hub. May be even what we use in my project - I'll check them out, and
see if we can do that - if it's easy and doable (psst, I can do it all
day long or even more :P and make it happen!) . It will be fun :D

So, let's start with a goal then - "what plugin should I create?" and I
will try to answer this asap, so that we can get started working on
creating the plugin in golang. Somethings to note - this new golang
plugin shouldn't already exist - sometimes I don't like reinventing the
wheel, also, it will be fun to create something that doesn't exist.
We'll also try to leverage as much as external libraries as possible,
because, well, I'm lazy and it's good to stand on the shoulders of cool
open source libraries and okay too, no harm, no judgements :P

So I started looking at the hub - https://docs.konghq.com/hub

I also checked out the open source kong plugins in GitHub

https://github.com/search?o=desc&q=kong+plugins&s=&type=Repositories

So, I noticed that there are multiple plugins. Some bundled with Kong,
some are bundled with only Kong Enterprise, and some are community
published.

Now, I didn't want to reinvent the wheel remember? So, community
published plugins are out of the question. They are open source, and
it's good to try rewrites, but I'm not going to do that. Next, bundled
with Kong, they are also open source from what I can see, some of them
are present in the Kong GitHub org - https://github.com/Kong as
separate repos, I think others are just bundled in the core kong source
code.

I was interested in the Enterprise plugins that I saw. I always liked
to mimic enterprise stuff and create open source alternatives. I saw
these two Kafka related plugins -

https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/
and
https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/kafka-log/

I wanted to create a plugin like these. I think I'll choose the Kafka
Log one first. And see how it goes. May be we can create the Kafka
Upstream one too later. I'm now gonna check if there are existing
plugins for Kafka Log in Github

Right. It's there over here - 

https://github.com/yskopets/kong-plugin-kafka-log

Found it here 

https://github.com/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=kafka%20kong

Then I think I'll try the Kafka Upstream one, that is this

https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/

Let's use all the information that we get on the Internet and make this
plugin :D :D

Disclaimer - I don't know Kong, Kong Plugins, Kafka. But I can manage a
bit. I have tried some stuff and have some experience. I know golang a
bit. 

Now, we need to define what our plugin will do, so that we build the
right thing!

So, I'm looking at the plugin page, it says

```
This plugin transforms requests into Kafka messages in a topic.
```

And then it has plugin configuration / parameters 

https://docs.konghq.com/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/#parameters

Looking at the whole page, it looks to me like all the requests to Kong
are converted / transformed to Kafka messages in a topic, and then
that's it, it's not forwarded to any service / microservice, it just
stops at Kong and the response is sent. Also, there's a parameter
for async mode for the plugin, I think it means the message can be sent
to Kafka later, and the response to the Kong http client can be sent
immediately. So, what does it mean to convert a request to a Kafka
message? I really don't know. I mean, I can guess some stuff from the
parameters.

Like `forward_method` - `Include the request method in the message.`

By default the value for this parameter is `false`, so it means it won't
be set in the message. But what's the format? We'll figure it out soon!
Usually it's JSON (I mean, XML is old and slow?) or can we use other
formats? Like protocol buffers? I don't know. Not sure what Kafka can
support. For now, let's go with JSON :)

And similar to `forward_method`, there's `forward_uri`,
`forward_headers`, `forward_body`. If you notice, all of this only
makes up a HTTP request from what I know, which is ->

HTTP version (v1, v2), request URI or path, request method, request
headers, request body. 

The `forward_body` parameter alone has a default value of `true`, so I
guess that alone will be converted to Kafka messages by default.

There are many other parameters regarding connecting to Kafka, like
timeouts, bootstrap servers, and then things like what
topic to publish / produce to. I can also see something called the
`producer_request_limits_messages_per_request`, it is to set the
maximum number of messages to include into a single Produce request.
I think this means that we buffer the messages? and this happens only
in async mode? not sure. Not too much info in the parameters section.
And the default value for this is `200`. There's also a
`producer_async_buffering_limits_messages_in_memory`, which is -
Maximum number of messages that can be buffered in memory in
asynchronous mode.

Wow, looks like we are trying to reverse engineer what it does based on
it's configuration 😅

Now, let's check at the plugin documentation in Kong

I'm check the 1.4.x docs

http://docs.konghq.com/1.4.x/plugin-development/

Now, this looks like a guide for Lua plugins. We can check this out a
bit for general info, but at some point we need to start checking out
how to do stuff in golang

Kind Guanlan replied this - 

https://twitter.com/guanlandai/status/1212428812245291010

when I tweeted about Kong golang plugins.

The draft is here - 

https://gist.github.com/guanlan/45df35521b746c28d024691fffc01032

I just skimmed through it. The draft looks quite good. I also read
somewhere that there's a bit of similarity to Lua plugin development
kit. Makes sense. 

I think I'll continue on this tomorrow. That's all for today! :D

# Book Stuff 1:

Also, in the middle of the day, I also read a book, called

"Start With Why" by Simon Sinek - How great leaders inspire everyone to
take action

I'm a very slow reader 😅 🙈 But I'll read it. I once read two non
fiction books completely. I usually don't read so much books. But those
two books have given me hope that I can read. :P I think I could write
a summary of what I read, so that I can have some take aways that I can
look back at. I hope I don't just write the whole book, lol.

I have just read a few pages of this book. I also have many other books
that are unread 🙈 Let's see how I make it a habit to read. To write. :)

Some other books that I have bought are

- The Hard Thing About Hard Things, By Ben Horowitz. - Building a
business when a there are no easy answers

- No Hard Feelings. Emotions At Work (And How They Help Us Succeed) By
Liz Fosslien and Mollie West Duffy

- Ikigai: The Japanese secret to a long and happy life. By Héctor
García and Francesc Miralles. 

- Attitude Is Everything: Change Your Attitude ... Change Your Life! By
Jeff Keller

- The Girl in Room 105. By Chetan Bhagat

- Think and Grow Rich. By Napoleon Hill

- The 5 AM Club. By Robin Sharma

- Think Straight: Change Your Thoughts, Change Your Life. By Darius
Foroux

- The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do, and How to Change. By
Charles Duhigg

- Database Internals: A Deep Dive into How Distributed Data Systems
Work. By Alex Petrov

- Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-free Productivity. By David
Allen

- Company of One: Why Staying Small is the Next Big Thing for Business.
By Paul Jarvis

- Learned Optimism: How to Change Your Mind and Your Life. By Martin
Seligman

These are most of the books that I got in 2019. I think there's some
more in my google play library. Not sure

And a bought some more in 2018. Woah. I think for someone who doesn't
read much, I have a lot of books 🙈 I think I've to start realizing how
many books I have, and how I could make use of them. Let's see if they
are interesting. And you might ask how I buy em even though I say I
don't read much. Well 😅 my company gives money to buy books. I buy
some. That's it. I actually read only two books completely like that.
I think if I create a habit to read and if the books are interesting to
me, then it will be a great thing! :) Then I can think about writing
summaries of my take aways!
