# Jan 6th 2020

## Blog stuff 1

So, I read some blogs posts recently. 

https://davnicwil.com/just-build-the-product/

https://jvns.ca/blog/2019-year-in-review/ - this has a lot of links in
it! For example - https://jvns.ca/blog/brag-documents/ , 
https://30x500.com/academy/ . Those are what I have read. You can find
more in the post :)

## Business Stuff 1

Today morning someone asked me over Twitter DM about an open source project I wrote
long back - `easy-pdf-merge` - https://github.com/karuppiah7890/easy-pdf-merge
and they had some doubt regarding how to run it in Electron, as this
library worked based on `pdfbox` - https://pdfbox.apache.org/
which is based on Java, so needs Java to run. So, he was asking about
that. I said I didn't know much. And then later I decided to be a
business man ;)

I told him that I could check it out and work on it, write my
experience on it (like how I'm writing this learning-log) and then
give him the source code of a proper working solution and also
open source it. And that that's what I usually do (like Kong stuff?).
And I told him I wanted $200 for it. I think 😆 is an apt smiley? :P
Well, anyways. So, how did I come up with that number? So, I work in
a consultant company. I remember being told that we bill our clients
usually at an hourly rate (otherwise it's fixed cost budget project)
and that the rate is around $60 or $80. I don't know the exact. But
assuming it was $60, I thought I'll need around 3 hrs to work on it?
Like, proper 3 hrs, even though I might take multiple breaks and all.
And I thought - okay, 1 hr -> $60, so 3 hrs, $180 and I rounded it off
to $200 😆 Also, hey, this was no normal person, they were direct
messaging me from their official company account. It was a company
selling products. I think desktop software alone? I saw some yearly
and monthly rates for it. Around $4 or $5 per month and sometimes
$60 one time? And then $12 for a year? Something of that sort. So I
thought - well, the software is about PDF merging and PDF stuff (haha
yeah) and I do that for them and they earn, what do I get? So, I
started doing my calculation for the work. I told him. And then he
gave his number and asked to contact over WhatsApp. He then asked me
if I knew what he wanted and then in between he said he's not a Js
programmer. I don't know what he was doing, but anyways, I explained
and he agreed and said that the requirement was correct. Then he spoke
about money. He said he paid half the money, that is $100, for front
end. I said "haha, it's fine" and that he can find someone else to do
the work and he said okay for everything and said sorry for disturbing
and didn't say much

This was the first time I ignored an offer. I mean, I could have
negotiated? I don't know. But 200 bucks was good money. Lol :P
Also, I was like "I should ask the money that's worth it for the
work and worth it of my time". I used to freelance in fiverr.com
and I remember how I crazy I was to work for so many hours for
such less money for so long. Like, I knew I could ask for more, I
just didn't know how much more. At some point I did increase the
cost for the work, but not so much. I got the money most of the time
without negotiations. It kind of felt like I was always telling a
good and probably lesser or reasonable cost. I was like "damn, I could
have asked for more eh?". But setting really low prices got me enough
people to come to me. I guess the low cost is good to start with, to
get some experience, get some customers. But at some point, you should
stop letting people exploit you. Value your work, value your time. See
how you can negotiate, but don't compromise the cost.

My twitter story - I mean, I don't what I did was right or wrong. I'm
actually in a confused state, but it does feel good. Like, next time,
I will surely not undervalue my work. It's fine if I overvalue :P I
can get a bit more money. It's not going to do any harm for me :P lol

## Event Stuff 1

In between I also attended a meeting to talk about organizing an event
over the weekend in our office. A hackathon called Make-A-Thon -
http://lemalabs.com/lema-community/makeathon/

May be I'll write more about that later. Phew. A lot things to write
about.

Hmm. I think this is becoming like a journal for me 🤔 But I think that
anything I do - I have some learning - for life, work. That's the case
usually. May be I should do stuff that doesn't give any knowledge too,
eh? Idk

Anyways, that's all for the day! I should go sleep soon!

Oh yeah, one more thing!

## Open Source Stuff 1

So, I emailed Buoyant CEO (https://buoyant.io/) and asked about job
opportunities and he redirected me to one of his colleagues! :D So,
I'm looking for remote job opportunities, and open source companies,
let's see how it goes. For now, I have a call with an employee in
Buoyant :) It's tomorrow morning 6 am!! I know right! They are a
lot of hours behind us. Not sure how the remote work thing will
work. No wonder they are looking for remote people only in particular
timezones. Anyways, let's see if they have an opportunity for a simple
Indian developer, for a remote job! :D

I need to sleep soon to attend that call! :D Bye!