# Jan 10th 2020

## Blog stuff 1

So I read some blog posts recently. Wanted to share em!

https://dev.to/helleworld_/being-disrespected-ignored-in-an-it-job-being-young-junior-what-do-you-do-47j6

http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2020/01/09/towards-a-rust-foundation/

---

Companies with good engineering blogs (people's opinions):

https://mobile.twitter.com/TheAmyCode/status/1213591618466398208

Apple blog stuff:

https://mobile.twitter.com/TheAmyCode/status/1214292347237761024

---



# Idea stuff 1

Usually my ideas come from inspiration (decent word for copying? :P)
by seeing other cool stuff!

One such idea is 

https://twitter.com/learnk8s/status/1211980500094640128

https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10485-kubernetes?utm_sq=g98qb2covn

Autocompleting yaml files for Kubernetes. I don't know what advanced
navigation they mention. I have to try the plugin in IntelliJ. And
then they mention about documentation. Sounds like a cool idea

This could be an open source plugin if it's already not one, and the
plugin can be made for any editor. Some of the famous ones I know are
sublime text, vs code, atom, brackets

I'm seeing a lot of cool stuff under https://twitter.com/learnk8s :)

# Day Job Stuff

I didn't do much today in my day job. I just added on feature to the
helm - restarting deployments when the configmap changes. So why did I
do that though? 

So the configmap and the deployment are related. The
app that the deployment runs needs configuration and the configuration
is stored in a configmap and mounted as a volume in the deployment's
pod and then used by the app

When the configmap's content changes, the content in the volume of the
pod doesn't automatically change. It's actually still the old content
inside the pod. I don't the internals - but the thing is - it's NOT all
dynamic, meaning when configmap changes - just that changes, it's
change does not propagate to the pod's volume [pod is created with the
deployment]. So, how do you then change the content of the pod's
volume? If you kill the pods, new pods come up, and the changes in the
configmap are reflected now, in the volume that's mounted in the pod.

So, we need pod restarts. Now, we do deployments with helm, how do we
make sure that our pods restart when we deploy changes to configmap?
Or is it needed to manually restart it every time we just change the
configmap? The answer is - no, no need for manual stuff, there are
some ways to make your life easier, just check this trick -

https://helm.sh/docs/howto/charts_tips_and_tricks/#automatically-roll-deployments

So we just used an annotation in the pod when defining the deployment,
and this annotation's value was based on the configmap's content - the
shasum of it. So, if the configmap changes, sha changes, the pod's
annotation changes, so a new pod is created, taken care by your
kubernetes deployment, and your pods get the new configmap content and
work as expected, if they depend on it that is :P through the use of
volumes and volume mounts! May be I could write a post about this
sometime :)

That's all for today!