# Jan 11th 2020

## Blog stuff

Some blog articles in my browser tab :P I need to read most of em :P

http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2020/01/09/towards-a-rust-foundation/

https://dev.to/kaylasween/powerlifting-has-made-me-a-better-developer-part-1-interpersonally-3l6d?utm_source=additional_box&utm_medium=internal&utm_campaign=regular&booster_org=

https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/curiosity-essential-adaptive-capacity-world-constant-flux-sinclair/

https://a16z.com/2019/10/04/commercializing-open-source/

https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/05/28/burnout-official-medical-diagnosis-says-who/1256229001/

https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/careers/2019/03/11/work-life-balance-why-you-might-want-take-pay-cut-happier/39147195/

https://www.usatoday.com/story/money/2019/05/24/heres-what-hiring-managers-look-for-in-remote-workers/39418111/

https://yourstory.com/2020/01/startup-iit-bombay-alumni-bootstrapped-coding

https://hbr.org/topic/work-life-balance

https://hbr.org/2019/10/how-to-deal-with-constantly-feeling-overwhelmed

https://www.beyondpinkworld.com/news/movies-entertainment/helen-real-life-8687

## Open Source Stuff 1

So I saw this repo today, which has all awesome helm stuff. 

https://github.com/cdwv/awesome-helm

and it has info on helm plugins too!

https://github.com/cdwv/awesome-helm/blob/master/README.md#plugins

And I recently created a helm plugin and I plan to add it to this
list! :D Just some publicity and making people's lives a bit better so
that they don't hate json schemas when they write it for their values
yaml by hand from scratch and instead try my tool :)

https://github.com/karuppiah7890/helm-schema-gen

So, I did just that. Added my plugin to the list of plugins :D

https://github.com/cdwv/awesome-helm/pull/33

Also, look at the way I added it. The description. So, I have been
reading the "Start with Why" book recently. I followed it and put up
the answer to why the plugin exists, and not what it does ;)

# Start with Why book

I read the book for a few minutes today. I noticed more reasons as to
why the why is important. There was a lot of mention of the word "why"
:P I mean, I shouldn't be surprised :P Anyways, so, I read how
different business struggle because of their non-existent why and the
existence of their "what" alone. 

The book also talks about how people buy products due to the why, and
not for the what. But that why itself is not enough, but the what is
also important, for example, they kept mentioning about Apple products
again and again a lot, as usual. They said how Apple's why is concrete,
that they want to pioneer in everything and have new perspectives etc
etc (I really can't remember much, I have to go read again about their
why and also validate it :P) and how their what is the proof of their
why and that their products are quite good. The book tells how the
product needn't not the best, but it has to be good or very good. So,
just the why is not enough, a good what is needed too. 

I also read about the comparison of products and how it makes no sense
to compare when you haven't understood the why. 

The book also talks about how people form communities which use a
product, on their own, without the company's help, this is
because of the people's beliefs and values that align with the why of
the product and the book also tells how some products are proof of the
beliefs and values of the people. 

Basically a lot of connections between, people's lifestyle, their
beliefs and values, the company's why.

Since I plan to create a company (some day? or I'm already working on
it may be? In my head :P), it's really good to see thoughts on this

# Make-A-Thon event. 3D printing!

So, today I'm here at my office. Spending the weekend at office ðŸ™ˆ but
I think it's worth it :D I mean, I got to see a 3d printer :) I didn't
see anything else

So, this really enthusiastic guy showed me and explained a lot of stuff
to me! :D He showed me his printer, explained how much it costed -
around 25,000 INR, and told me how it works. That he took a design,
which was designed in CAD software and that he converted it into a
file - g code file, using Cura - https://github.com/Ultimaker/Cura

Some more links on cura and stuff

https://github.com/Ultimaker
https://ultimaker.com/software/ultimaker-cura

Now, with this g-code file he put it into a memory card and inserted it
into his printer and said he set the temperature to 200 (not sure if
it's F or C, forgot to ask!). This temperature is the temperature used
to melt the material (thermo plastic) which will build the thing that
we want - in this case a small cute boat. The material was present as
a wire. A small box was pulling this wire and melting it, and building
the boat. This box was moving. So, there's 3 directions in 3D right?
X, Y, Z. This box moved in X axis over a big rod. The Y axis movement
was taken care by the lower part of the printer, the bed or the board?
And the Z was taken care by another rod, which lifted the box whenever
needed, using a motor, over a rod, in a straight line. I'll try to put
a video and share it over here :D It was really cool!

He then went on to tell me about his startup and where he's worked and
all.

He also told me about his friend who is working on a real ironman mask!

He showed the working mask on his friend's insta. Told me that it was
made using a different material, similar to steel. His friend also had
some electronics, which opened the mask on his face and closed it too!
Apparently he also added a display to the mask's inside, to get the
feeling of ironman with his jarvis ;)

So I was being told that 3D printing is going to be the future. Sounded
real cool! Apparently there are very very costly printers (of course!)
too ranging till around 500,00,000 INR, and that one college has it in
their R & D department, and that it can carve titanium, or almost any
material. He told me his printer can do thermo plastic, and that it can
also do laser! He said he got like an extension for his printer to be
able to do laser printing

And then I saw this site while browsing - 

https://glowforge.com/

It looks really cool. How they carve chocolates, macs, leather wallets
or anything for that matter!

This guy also told me that he has a startup. I was like wow! They do
security software and hardware it seems. And he also works for another
company, remotely! He works as on ML as an intern, to solve some
business problems in a manufacturing industry - attendance of
employees, number of products they manufacture etc.

He also told me how he interned at multiple Indian companies and that
he got bored with all the routines ðŸ˜… , like the routine job and how
people questioned him when he did something cool, and more that what
he was asked to do. Unfortunately they didn't value his work and
interest

Anyways, that's all for today. Lot of learnings from college students
and lot of motivation and enthusiasm too. It's true how enthu and
motivation are contagious!

I also got to interact with them to tell about what I work on. But I
was mostly listening to them talk :)