# Jan 12th 2020

So, it's 12:34 AM for me. I'm still at the event, for which I'm just
here to help folks if anything is needed.

I'm planning to either sleep or read "Start with Why" or do some Kong
stuff, or wait, I could also checkout Netflix :D

I'm a bit tired. I think I'll need to check how I'm going to sleep in
the office first, before sleeping :p

For now just Netflix, and then read the book while I try to sleep :P
Patriot Act in Netflix :D

# Open Source Stuff 1

Okay, it's 2:09 AM. Imma do some Kong and sleep off :P

I think I have been all over the place recently with Kong. Trying out
the plugin locally, I think that was worth it. Then trying out what
happens when I give the body as number for the `Exit` function - well
that was a bit too much, as that was more towards contributing to
golang PDK for Kong, which will help later. I think I should just
finish the kafka upstream plugin first. 

Before that, one thought I plugins -
It would be great to know how to debug plugins - using the debugger

I think I'll do it sometime. It will be especially useful when
debugging issues in the golang code of the plugin :)

Next thing I plan to do, to make my life easier - I want to see logs
for kong when I start it off, in the console. Currently, kong starts
off in the background and logs come in a file

I also don't want to keep using a config file. I think I would like to
try environment variables. It's the same thing yeah. But it's easier to
manage, read, as I'll set only some variables and do stuff, unlike
seeing a big file and scrolling and stuff. Not much difference, but
anyways, it will be cool like that I think. I'll try that sometime in
between. But for now, let's move more towards our goal - for Kafka
upstream plugin. 

Okay, may be I can spend a few minutes on side stuff. Let me see what's
the config for not running in daemon mode and logging in the console.
And may be quickly check on environment variables too!

Okay, environment variables stuff - found out! I have actually seen a
bit of it before, now I got a link!

https://docs.konghq.com/1.4.x/configuration/#environment-variables

So, that's sorted out, now, no daemon mode and logging to console. And
this is key in container environments - you can read about it online.
And kong docs also mention the same - using environment variables over
files in containers. I think this is based on the 12 factor app
https://12factor.net/

Okay, to start kong as a foreground process - we just need to turn off
the daemon mode :)

https://docs.konghq.com/1.4.x/configuration/#nginx_daemon

Also, we used environment variables when running kong in a docker
container, and did the logging correctly too. I just went and checked
that 😅 🙈 . Anyways, found it!

```
export KONG_PROXY_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout
export KONG_ADMIN_ACCESS_LOG=/dev/stdout
export KONG_PROXY_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr
export KONG_ADMIN_ERROR_LOG=/dev/stderr
```

Now, let's do our stuff using environment variables and run it all as
foreground process!

Now, we have our `env` file!

# Link stuff 1

http://cliffle.com/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o01QmYVluSw&t=1777s

https://overreacted.io/goodbye-clean-code/