# Jan 26th 2020

Okay! So, today, I did some stuff that I'm going to note down
and also note down what I wanna do

## Open Source stuff 1

I first updated my PR here https://github.com/helm/helm/pull/7235

## AR !

So, I have wanted to try Augmented Reality stuff for quite some time now.
I even bought a phone for my Mom which has support for ARCore which I was
very particular about :P It's a Xiaomi Poco phone. I do know ARCore support
is not the only thing that's needed to do AR stuff. I mean, so many people
have pokemon go in their phones, not all of them have support for ARCore,
also ARCore is a recent thing, so there must have been some magic stuff
or code that was used before. But for now, I'm going to try ARCore, and then
try other stuff in my phone which doesn't support ARCore. I have also tried
Spark AR before, in my phone. Some AR effects were just too slow and bad 🙈
😅Anyways, some links now

spark ar - https://sparkar.facebook.com/

Now, I'm using this link to try out AR Core using Unity. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GkzMFNmvums&list=WL&index=81&t=0s

I don't know if unity is really needed, but I'm just going to go with it and
try the demo to give it a start! :D :)

So, I got unity from the site, the individual license 

and then I got this arcore unity sdk package from here 

https://github.com/google-ar/arcore-unity-sdk/releases

Now, in this video, the speaker tells how he is not importing the examples to
keep it quick I guess? But he tells how there are some cool examples. 

He also explained what can be done a bit - detecting light, and then things
like syncing the world view of two phones using Cloud Anchors.

He is going to build an app which when pointed at newspapers will find
videos regarding the images and play them on top of the images in the
newspaper - some Harry potter like stuff!!! :D Apparently it's easy. Idk.

He even showed this as a demo - it seems someone had already done this, using ARKit,
the apple thingy. Speaker plans to do with ARCore! :)

Apparently I need some sample images for this. So I took the Indian Express, and
took the sports page and clicked some pics. I think I'll also get some pics from
online! Easier and better!

Cool, I got some pics from here

https://epaper.newindianexpress.com/2505032/The-New-Indian-Express-Chennai/11-01-2020#page/18/2

I just used my mac screenshot tool and got the pics :D 

And I imported them into my unity project too! :)

Okay, I did tons of things. Lol!

So, for scripts - I used VS Code to edit stuff. I got the microsoft C# extension, downloaded
some .Net Core stuff. Got some errors. Restarted VS code, got it working! Used the intellisense
to some extent. It didn't help too much. And the speaker had some good snippets, I think for the demo?
Anyways, I typed a lot of stuff. Finally it didn't work 😅

I mean, I had to get Android SDK. I just got android studio, which also installed sdk on opening the
first time.

Now, unity was not able to find the sdk path. I found out finally in build settings that
there was no android module. Not sure what that meant, but then I got it. Now gotta check
if I can see the settings for android sdk path in preferences, because till now I was not
able to see it!

Awesome, so the installation Failed ! Gonna try it again :/

This time I stopped unity and closed it. Still, installation failed. At the last stage.
Not sure why

I think I'll try again tomorrow ! 😴