# Jan 27 2020

# AR stuff with unity

Okay, I noticed yesterday itself that my unity version in the window shows as
`2018.4.15f1`. Apparently this is the LTS version. Unity Hub can install
latest version and pre release versions too it seems. Anyways, I just now
installed Android Build support using Unity Hub by seeing this

https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/android-sdksetup.html

gotta see if the app works now :)

Okay, so it worked on my friend's one plus 6t. The preview showed up,
but the camera was blurry for some reason. Not sure why. Hmm

I have to fix that next

Okay, I wasn't able to fix it till now. I think I'm going to park this
for now. It's unfortunate, but I don't want to spend too much time on
this. Going to do index.json feature in helm next! this one -

https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6155

# blog stuff

I read a small simple article about devops

https://www.engineerbetter.com/blog/kill-the-devops-team/

Our team is part of a big group of teams that - enables developers
for productivity :) It was a good read. I have to think more about
it though. The article mentions only a few things and links to
other places too.

# open source stuff 1

Going to work on this now

https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6155

First thing I'm going to do is - implement the creation
of a json index file using

```
$ helm repo index .
```

So, I created a new branch for the development `fix-6155/index-json`

I checked the code here - `cmd/helm/repo_index.go`. Was checking for
tests and finally found them here - `cmd/helm/repo_index_test.go` 🙈 .
Well, getting used to VS Code development now. Lol.

Anyways, I need to add a test to ensure that a json index file is
also created, along side the yaml file. For now I think both can
coexist. Also, removing `index.yaml` will be a breaking change,
as older versions still depend on that! So yeah, co-existence is
the only option

Everywhere, I will go with an approach like - if json index is present,
use it, or else go with yaml index. When I say or else, it means the
non-existence of json index. I'm also thinking about including any
possible errors in the json index in the else part, and use yaml
index in that case. Hmm. 

Also, any read or write operations must be done to both the files.
At least that's what I'm thinking. But this will be a burden. Hmm.
Or we could just say use json index, and if json index fails, we can
throw error. And we will make sure that json index is the source of
truth if that's present. No looking for yaml index when json index is
present. Hmm. Gotta discuss some approach details with the maintainers.
