# March 9th 2020

So, today I'm thinking about this problem - migrating grafana dashboards (JSON files) from one grafana
version to another. A colleague tells me that - apparently grafana takes care of any upgrades to database
and dashboard schema automatically when the grafana server starts up. Reference -
https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/migrating_to2/ 

The problem I have is this - we already have two instances of Grafana. One is version v4.2.0 
(commit: 349f3eb) and the other is Grafana  v5.1.3 (commit: 087143285)

We want to migrate our dashboard alone from the old grafana to new grafana. We have the dashboard JSON.
What my colleague did was this - he ran grafan in his local and upgraded it to upgrade the dashboard JSON.
Awesome idea! :D The only problem I see here is - he had to do all that to do one thing. I mean, I don't
know how tough or easy it was to run the server. I hope he didn't have to run the database or may be he had 
to. Anyways, my point is - that's not necessary. I mean, if there's code inside grafana server to do the 
upgrade automatically, I would want that to be present as a separate tool too 🙈 So, that's what I'm 
planning to try. Grafana is written in Golang, so wow, I don't have to learn another language now :P
Next thing, I need to check if there are existing tools to help with this in their repo, or just dive 
straight into the server code and check what they do to upgrade the dashboard JSON and how I could do the 
same too ;) 


