# March 9th 2020

Yesterday I checked some code in Grafana - github.com/grafana/grafana . Initially, I was skimming the
server code for v6 🙈 And there was no trace of any migration of dashboards that I could find. I realized
I need to start checking for v5 code by checking out to that tag, and I found the migration code I think.
I also noticed this page - https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/upgrading/ which talks
about upgrading where I found out about some dashboard stuff only under 
[Upgrading to v5.0](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/upgrading/#upgrading-to-v5-0) 
section where they mention that

> The dashboard grid layout engine has changed. All dashboards will be automatically upgraded to new 
> positioning system when you load them in v5. Dashboards saved in v5 will not work in older versions of 
> Grafana. Some external panel plugins might need to be updated to work properly.
>
> For more details on the new panel positioning system, click here

So, looks like any version to v5 is the only problem in terms of dashboard JSON files. And I can also see
some code over here regarding some different version stuff -

https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/v5.4.5/pkg/services/provisioning/dashboards/config_reader.go

But reading some stuff in the code and over here 

https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#dashboards

I'm not so sure now. Also, I can see some code here

https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/v5.4.5/public/app/features/dashboard/dashboard_migration.ts#L387

May be the grid stuff is more UI related. Also, my colleague mentioned that there was not much difference
in the dashboard JSONs of the two grafana versions 🙈 May be I need to run it locally and try it out! 😅

And see if this tool is really needed, lol 😂 Let's see :P 

I need to first create a dummy dashboard I guess, in v4. Or use my company project one. I think I'll use 
company project one for now, to see how production use case works. And then for demo purposes use a dummy 
one. Also, a good reason for me to try out grafana locally :P and may be contribute some day soon :P

Now, Imma take a break and then do this. And get this done soon so that I can get back to the tons of old
stuff that are pending and I have been procrastinating 🙈 some of them are external committments! 🙈 Others
are my own committments, like, I'm responsible and answerable to only me for those stuff. :P
