# April 16th 2020

So, we created this endpoint to fetch
a list of resources. This was the first
endpoint for this resource. A list
endpoint. The idea was to use
a JSON as the database for this endpoint.
That is, the service would read from a
JSON file once and then keep the data in
it's memory and then use it to serve the
endpoint. A very very very small JSON file.
So, it seemed okay to me. We implemented the
endpoint. 

While implementing, this is what we did
for every request:
1. read from the JSON file
2. parse the JSON file to get the list
of data
3. check the request to see what the client
is asking for and get those resources alone
4. finally send the response

Now, later we realized that we could do
some optimization here. The JSON file would
not be changing dynamically. We were deploying
using kubernetes. So, we created a docker
image containing the JSON file and used it
in our deployment. The file was not coming 
from some configmap, or secret, getting
mounted. So, it's a static file. And if it's
going to be changed, we would do a deployment
was my thought process. May not be an ideal
thing, but I thought we were okay with it,
also with the fact that may be the JSON file
would not get updated so much. I wasn't sure
though. We should have checked out more
about the problem we are trying to solve.
Anyways. So, we know that it's a static file,
so, why then read and parse it for every
request? So, we decided to do that just when
the service starts. We finished off this
optimization and were cool with things.

Later, we noticed a bug. Since we were using
a variable stored in memory as a database, but
only to read from it to respond to requests,
we didn't see if we make any modifications
to it. Apparently we did make some 
modifications to it unintentionally because
of some reference copy issues, where we
expected copy by value. So, the whole idea
about an in-memory database inside the code -
as a variable brings in such issues where
state is maintained and if you mess it up, it
messes up things. Now, this lead to the issue
where every request got the same response, 
that is the response that was seen for the
first request. We expected some difference
in every response based on the user 
requesting, as we had some user based 
response. And we noticed that all response 
were the same as what the first user saw, even
if the user requesting was a new user in later
requests. This was caused because of the above
issue I mentioned. We had state in our 
service. It should have been a read only
state, but we missed to make sure that it
was really read only.

And if the state is read-write, then, well,
you need to be careful about concurrent
requests reading from and modifying the state.
It's more like then doing stuff that a 
database does. Making sure it's ACID compliant
and all that. Also, if you are going to
write to the state, in this case an in-memory
variable but it connects to the static JSON
file and if you write to the JSON file - 
that's all good but that's going to be
time consuming, doing IO operations on the
file system, also, now if your JSON file
is the database with read-write operations,
you still have only one file, so you can run
only one instance of your service. If you run
two instances, based on the architecture I
mentioned, you will have two files in two
pods (containers) of yours. It just gets more
messy slowly. 

All of this is usually solved by a database.
Now, apparently we needed an add/update
enpoint too for our resources. And this
time, the plan was to use a DB and store
the data about the resources. Now, I didn't
know this. If I had known, I would have 
strongly recommended to use a database in the
first place for the list endpoint. We also
wouldn't have had to do any optimizations
or fix the reference issues that we had
while implementing




