# April 17th 2020

So, today we are facing this problem of
not knowing what and all APIs we have.
No proper docs with all documentation
or anything.

We do have some openapi specs. But it
seems it's not complete - either needs
some updates for the apis, based on the
latest code, or needs some more apis
to be added to the spec which are new
in the code.

The idea was to first design the api,
write the openapi spec and then use
generated code in our service. But that
didn't happen after some point. But we
still need documentation, even if it's
not documentation / design driven development
where you first document / design before
even writing code. Similar to Test driven
development where you write failing test 
before writing code. But we surely need tests
even if TDD is not followed. But following
TDD will only make your life easier in the 
long run - trust me, if writing a test sounds
like a nightmare, try getting pagerduty calls
at midnight due to production issues - you
will choose writing tons of test code before
writing code then :P

Okay, back to the whole openapi spec thing.
So, we realized there's a drift between the
spec and the code. Now, how to fix it. We
realized it was a very mundane task to go
through each api and then write the spec for
it. Also, the spec had things like examples.
So, even if we think about automation,
automation cannot think about examples very
easily :P but I knew we could automate a bit.
I had already seen people auto generate
swagger json files before and have done it
too long ago. So, it's not so new a problem.
Now, this time, we decide that - okay, let's
not do the mundane task and try to automate.
That's when we decided to check this tool
called swag, go-swagger which one of the
team members mentioned. 

I forgot to mention the why of this whole
thing. why do we need openapi spec - we want
some correct documentation of our APIs. so 
that anyone can see it, understand it 
and consume it. as there are other teams
and not just our team building things.
And the openapi spec is also
one way to help us understand what are the
backend api changes that we are releasing
when we do deployments. So, some way to tell
the difference between the old and new 
deployment - by doing some kind of difference
or diff operation and tell if there are new
additions, modifications and deletions. Reason
being - adding new features, removing some
stuff, fixing some stuff.

I am reading this blog to get started with.

https://mux.com/blog/an-adventure-in-openapi-v3-api-code-generation/

Of course I need to learn about openapi spec
and see some basic stuff. I have already seen
a thing or two by seeing the openapi spec in
yaml format that we have :)
