# September 15th 2020

I was simply checking out about how to connect two computers over the Internet
securely. Of course there must be multiple ways. So I was digging through. I
found some people mentioning about VPN solutions. I need to learn it to
understand it.

Previously I remember reading some blog posts about this. I finally found it out
in my history

https://slack.engineering/introducing-nebula-the-open-source-global-overlay-network-from-slack/

https://github.com/slackhq/nebula/

Apart from this, I found many other tools long ago in the network space for
different kinds of use cases and great solutions.

I was just trying to understand this to see how two computers can securely
connect to share data - say to share a file, share their screen, their terminal,
their code, and pair / collaborate. The idea was to keep it performant and
secure. Secure in a lot of ways, objectives being - Confidentiality, Integrity,
Availability. In short - CIA. On a quick search, I can find this

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Archive/Security/Confidentiality,_Integrity,_and_Availability

I have heard about this before, and know a bit about it, but haven't formally
read it.

In today's world, all the tools that we use have some sort of issue or the other
usually. For example, I have tried Zoom and Microsoft Teams. Especially with
Zoom, I have noticed so much performance issues in my computer. It's just
annoying. My laptop just dies. And guess what? It's a mac laptop. I can't
imagine how it is for people using laptops with lesser RAM and CPU cores.
This is just plain sad, to have softwares fighting for resources, killing the
machine. Hmm. I haven't used other tools, like Tuple and Scree.io and others.
Maybe they are better. I have used VS Code Live Share, but the problem is, the
data goes to their servers I think and I have no idea what data and what they
do there with the data. But it was a good enough experience. Just that the
security part is tricky. With Zoom and other paid tools, you have some contract,
non-disclosure agreements etc. But with free tools like VS Code Live Share, we
are the product, our data, is my guess. 😅

I think the connection between two computers should be end to end encrypted and
should not communicate with any intermediate servers as much as possible - maybe
use intermediate servers for bootstrapping purposes - to introduce the two
computers to each, to discover each other etc, more like initial stages in
communication, handshake etc. But after that, for actual communication of data,
maybe servers are not needed. Even if servers are kept in between, let's say,
for relaying data or any other reason, not sure what, the server should not be
able to read the data, only the end clients - receivers should be able to read.
I believe this is what end to end encryption is all about.
