# September 18th 2020

A good article about choosing an architecture other than microservices architecture for
a legacy rewrite

https://www.balajisivaraman.com/services-based-architecture-a-viable-alternative-to-microservices/

---

Family Tree problem

For initializing Family Tree, have methods to add husband for a woman,
add child through mother, and also a grand grand parent - a woman. It could be
anyone, but at the root, without parents, as the root of the family tree.

Every person has this data
* Husbands
* Wives
* Sons
* Daughters
* Sisters
* Brothers

For simplicity, we can say Husband, and Wife. Ideally, it can be many. Also, I
think, based on the data, given a person, there will be either a Husband or a
Wide. In any case, the algorithm is going to be agnostic of this. For the same
reason - any brother is a brother, no matter if it's a step brother or a half
brother. Same goes for sisters. Same goes for sons and daughters.

We can find all these relations dynamically when needed, but it's easier to add
them when adding a child to the family tree - why? The complexity comes in, when
trying to find dynamically - Let's say you want to find brothers of Alex.

We will have basic data like Alex's Mom is Julia. And then data about Julia's
kids. Just not sister/brother data. Parent/Kid data is the most basic data. Now,
with this alone, we need to find Julia's kids, among which, Alex is going to be
one of them, and then we have to remove Alex's name to get the other names. Now,
that elimination could be a bit much. Or one could actually just live with it I
guess.

One more thing to note is, the relationships are composed on top of each other.
If there's an easy way to represent them, then there will be less duplication of
code and it will also be very very flexible!


