# July 19th 2020

I got some comics in the form of .cbr file format.
I didn't know how to open it. Later on I found out
it can be converted to PDF format. After doing some
searching, I got this good tool

https://github.com/rwn3120/cbr2pdf

But the installation with `go get` or `go install`
wouldn't work, giving some compiler errors. It was
weird. I thought the code didn't work. Then I cloned
it and planned to fix it and use it. On cloning and
building, I found out it works! Weird stuff. Somehow
there was some issue with some module version or something.
I just found out that the go.sum has been git ignored,
probably there's some reason over there. Anyways, now
I have installed it with the source code in my local
and using `go install` and the tool just works! :D


Before this tool, I checked quite some stuff. Checked
as in, just looked at the readme.


https://github.com/MComas1/comics2pdf - this one was
python. I was too lazy to do some python stuff and this
asked to put the python source code in the same place
as the cbr. Too local a solution and I didn't know too
much python to make it work globally, just in case
for the future. Of course it's gonna be rare and very
possible that I won't use it again :P

https://github.com/rumesh986/comicconvert - this one
I tried. I was lost at finding `img2pdf` first and then
found it through some git history that previously
imagemagick tool called "convert" was used but there
were some issues (ram or something) and `img2pdf` was mentioned
with a link - https://github.com/josch/img2pdf . It was a
python tool and it was easy to install with `pip3`. The
shell script then worked, only to give some `sed` command
errors. This was some option error. Different OSes have
different `sed` tool implementations I guess? Like, by
default. Anyways, apparently it had already created my pdf
somehow? At least that's what I saw before cbr2pdf ran,
the pdf was already there. I was planning to fix the `sed`
issue by checking what it was, but then passed it. Then
I thought of using ubuntu using Docker and mounting volume
to convert the cbr files. Too much work, but I thought of it.
Didn't do it.

https://github.com/Julian-Heng/cbr2pdf - another shell script.
It asked to install some stuff. I was planning to try this.

Thankfully I got the golang one. This was the search I did.

https://github.com/search?q=cbr+to+pdf&type=Repositories

It's hard to look for open source tools huh...:P




