# July 5th 2020

Today I'm preparing for my PromCon talk. PromCon is a prometheus conference.

My topic is "Smoothly upgrading Exporters with breaking changes" and it's a 5 minutes
lightning talk.

The in-person conference has been cancelled unfortunately, but the event is happening
as a virtual event with pre-recorded videos :)

So, I have to do my talk and record it. The organizers recommended to use OBS - Open
Broadcaster Software, and that's my go to too, other than Kap tool, which is more
basic and simpler for screen recording :)

Now, before I do the talk, I need to actually build tools to augment my talk.
This is because, in my project, we used bash scripts to get the work done but that
was not exactly the complete work as far as I rememeber and we had some manual
interventions. So I thought may be some tooling could help. I hope I'll be able to
build the tooling. The problems to solve and some of my thoughts are below -

A tool to find the difference between the metrics of two versions of the same
exporter. Find metrics that have been removed or modified. Addition of metrics
is more like a new feature and we are only looking for breaking changes.

Removed - means it's either removed, or has been renamed in the new version.
Removal may be for multiple reasons. Renaming - again may be for multiple reasons, one
possible reason being - for better naming.

Modified means - metric name remains the same, but there is modification at
the level of labels. Again, the possibilities for breaking changes are - label names
have been removed or renamed. 

Due to these breaking changes, the grafana dashboards could be broken if
they are possibly using any metrics or labels that are broken - that is, they
don't exist or have been modified.

The idea is to change the dashboards - dashboard JSON with ease,
using automation tools. The input to the tool would be - how to
modify the queries that are using the broken metrics or labels.

---

Currently, I'm looking for tools or libraries that can help with
parsing the prometheus metrics and understanding the different
metric names and their label names and hopefully the type of the
label values, in case there's a breaking change over there too 🙈 😅

I found the documentation for the prometheus library over here

https://godoc.org/github.com/prometheus/prometheus

I started looking for parsing libraries by searching the page with
browser text search - Command + F

Found the `textparse` library

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pkg/textparse

And found there are two parsers. Open Metrics Parser and Prometheus Parser.
From the documentation, I think I'm looking for Prometheus Parser only,
unless the exporter is exporting in open metrics format which has
media type or content type in the HTML response as `application/openmetrics-text`,
in which case Open Metrics Parser will be used

It's evident from this code

```golang
func New(b []byte, contentType string) Parser {
     mediaType, _, err := mime.ParseMediaType(contentType)
     if err == nil && mediaType == "application/openmetrics-text" {
             return NewOpenMetricsParser(b)
     }
     return NewPromParser(b)
}
```

So, my aim should be to use this

https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/prometheus/prometheus/pkg/textparse#PromParser

I gotta see how to use this and parse the metrics and find the difference
between the metrics of two exporters


