# May 11th 2020

Okay, so, today I'm trying to see how to speed up
builds in our Android codebase. Currently the
codebase has lots of code. I think they are
split into modules. It uses gradle to build
and install the app in the mobile - emulator
or the connected mobile.

I'm trying to see if anything can be done to
speed up builds - by using previous cache -
as even without code changes, it takes a lot
of time to build.

I was thinking of using bazel initially -
but that's just blindly jumping into
new tools. I instead want to see how
the existing tool is being used and if we
can do better.

We are using Gradle v5.6.4, the latest in v5,
and Gradle v6 is out actually. Don't know what
features v6 has or what v5 has and what we use,
and what's the cost of migration from v5 to v6
if that's needed.

One thing is clear - bazel is out of the question
for now - this is because it's a new build system
and I don't know how many people know about it.
And people need to learn it if that's being used.
So, yeah. That's also a thing.

Also, currently people are saying - "just turn off
the modules you don't use and build" - it's kind of
true - we don't change code or access the other
modules - we only work on one of them and that's it.
If we turn off others - apparently the build is faster.
I was just thinking this - if we are not changing
code in other modules - shouldn't the previous build
be cached and reused ? No code change - no time needed
to build anything - as there's nothing new to build -
just reuse the old build artifacts

Okay, that's weird. I just tried to run my gradle
build twice - like this -

1. open codebase in android studio
2. no code change. run build to run app in mobile
3. takes 3 minutes and some seconds
4. uninstall app in mobile
5. run build to run app again in mobile
6. takes 34 seconds

that's like wow! Let's see what happens if I restart the
IDE.

1. quit the IDE
2. let the phone emulator keep running
3. start the IDE

Now, I'm running build again!

Actually, before I could run build, it's already running
some gradle stuff. It says "Build", "Build model" and stuff.
So, it's doing a Gradle Sync.

It finished sync in 2 minutes. Actually, previously and now
too, there were some warnings - in the build variants.
Apparently some modules are in one variant and others
are in another variant. And the modules are dependent
on each other. Now, I went and changed the variant
for one of them. There are lot more pointed in the
wrong variant. Not sure if this was what caused the
build to speed up? Idk. Lol. Too much magic around.
Need to understand and then get into it. For now,
let me do some blackbox testing of the build time.
I'll do it again by restarting IDE. For now,
will fix all the wrong build variants

Okay, so, after fixing the different active build variants
to exactly one active build variant across all modules,
the build is taking tons of time. Lol. I think the last
time it wasn't running the build for the modules that
had issues with the active build variant. haha

It's already 10 minutes in and the build is still going on.
I have seen it go on for 9 minutes, 11 minutes, 15-20 minutes
too. And my whole system is so slow now actually. 

So, it took 11 minutes 58 seconds this time!

It installed the app. I uninstalled it. Installing again!

This time, a lot of it says "UP-TO-DATE" and it finished in
58 seconds!

Let's install again! I'll make a very small change maybe.
It should recompile that alone!

Okay, actually I'll do that later. I'll just retry simply
with no code change first.

It's quite fast actually. It took 1m 47seconds though.

Now, code change and reinstall. I made a very small
code change - added an extra variable. Was thinking
of changing some string value. Not sure how each
affects the build though :/ for actual big code
change - Idk, gotta think of stuff. For now, meh,
this is okay. 

That was fast. 1m 14s! :) But I still think
it can better. Hmm

Let's restart IDE and check again! It took 1m 10s! :)

Now, let's try caching! I'm doing this -

org.gradle.caching=true

Let's see what happens in the upcoming builds! :)

Okay, now the speed is around 30s. Max being 36s,
when I tried multiple times

Restarting IDE now and checking! :)

It took 1m 49s now. Trying reinstall now

It took 2m 25s. Trying reinstall took 1m 23s.

I'm not sure how the timing works now actually.
May be because I'm running multiple apps in
my computer, it's taking more time.
