# May 22nd 2020

So, today I'm getting rid of all the accounts, passwords, history and any
information I have with respect to a client, as I have come out of the client
project.

This includes cloud accounts, email accounts, slack accounts, source code
hosting accounts, accounts in third party apps used by clients and more.

Currently I removed all passwords from my password manager. Removing stuff
from my Firefox. For example, searching history and removing all the links
related to the client. This way, when I type in the URL bar, I won't see
suggestions and links related to the clients and their sites etc.

My firefox got stuck when I tried to search for the client related sites in
history and tried to delete them all together 😅

I started checking for ways to do it in command line. There were some ways that
told how to use some sqlite db. It was a bit much and I only saw how to view
history, I didn't check if it's possible to delete it that way. Then I looked
for history API, first found a basic thing specific to a webpage, for full
browser history, there's this API for addons / extensions -

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/history

I was planning to build one but then resorted to looking for addons :P 
There are some good addons.

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/search/?q=history&platform=Darwin&appver=77.0

I was checking this - 

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/delete-history/?src=search

But I don't get how to use it 🤦‍♂

Oh. Damn. I found out. It was among the tons of extensions I have.

I actually got this one

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/history-autodelete/?src=search

and already started deleting the domains. Gonna use this too now

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/delete-history/?src=search

I actually want to delete history based on domain name AND title of the website.
I don't see addons helping with that. Hmm 🤔 I'm afraid this is a new idea and
something I gotta implement myself and use it :P :P 

---

Apparently `.mm` files are not easy to read from and visualize 🤔 Hmm. Atleast
that's the sense I'm getting. I tried to look for tools that can import `.mm`
files. Many online ones didn't want to import it. I opened the file and noticed
some xml like thingy. 

Again. I'm afraid that at some point, I'll have to build a tool to
visualize this too :P

---

