# May 24th 2020

Today I learned that `$ cd -` works using this environment variable
called `$OLDPWD`. So, when you do `cd`, I don't know who sets it,
may be `cd`, but the env var `$OLDPWD` is set to the old directory,
so that when `$ cd -` is called, then it can go back to the old
directory. And if it's the first time the shell has opened, and
if you try `$ cd -`, then it showd this error `-bash: cd: OLDPWD not set`
and that's how I found out :) and yes, you can check the `$OLDPWD`
using `$ echo $OLDPWD`

---

Today I learned about the `say` command in MacOS. My friend had mentioned
it to me earlier when talking about, you know, having some automated
voice telling me the time every hour, so that I can keep "track of time".
I have an app in my Android phone for that, which uses the system alarm
for this, a repeated alarm with a custom sound as the alarm sound, to tell
the time.

What my friend did was - he used the `crontab` for running an hourly
cronjob and for the job - he used the `say` command and used the
`date` command to find the time at that particular instant and the
`say` would just tell the command given the string of words.

And there are multiple voices that can be used with the `say` command

```
$ say "Hi"
$ man say
$ say -v ?
$ say -v Veena Hi
$ say -v Alex Hi
```

That was fun. I think I'll set it up too. May be not today? :P I'm
bored and lazy? :P

Okay. I felt it wouldn't take much time and did it anyway. :P

`crontab` messed with me for a bit. Got this error

`crontab: temp file must be edited in place`

Apparently vim edits a copy of the file and then writes to the original
later, and `crontab` misses it and all. I finally used `nano`

https://ole.michelsen.dk/blog/schedule-jobs-with-crontab-on-mac-osx.html

https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/212703/crontab-error-no-crontab-for-user

https://duckduckgo.com/?t=ffab&q=crontab%3A+temp+file+must+be+edited+in+place&ia=web&iax=qa

Use this site for getting my cron time right

https://crontab.guru/#0_*_*_*_*

This is the script - `sayTime.sh`

```bash
#!/bin/bash

hourNumber=$( date "+%I" | sed 's/^0*//' )
say "It's $hourNumber o clock"

```

and the crontab content -

```
$ chmod +x ~/sayTime.sh
$ EDITOR=nano crontab -e
crontab: installing new crontab
$ crontab -l
0 * * * * ~/sayTime.sh
```

And it works! :) I tried a different cron time to check in between
the hour, like

```
40 * * * * ~/sayTime.sh
```

and then changed it back after I saw it works! :)

